Hail query, no vep (#10)
populationgenomics/automated-interpretation-pipeline: design_docs/Configuration.md

# Configuration File

The configuration file is a segmented JSON file, containing groups of key: value pairs.

Each of the labelled groups has a `description` label, giving the context for the contained values. The current config groups are described below.

## `moi_tests`

This section contains relates to the application of Mode Of Inheritance tests. These are not set based on the prevalence
any individual disease in any specific population. Feedback from clinical teams will be used to further refine these
settings

* gnomad_dominant - the max gnomad population AF permitted for Mono-allelic disease
* gnomad_max_homs_dominant - max number of Homs in Gnomad for Mono-allelic disease
* gnomad_max_homs_recessive - max number of Homs in Gnomad for Bi-allelic disease

> * gnomad_max_homs_recessive - max number of variants in Gnomad for Mono-allelic disease

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* gnomad_max_ac_dominant - max number of variants in Gnomad for Mono-allelic disease
```

variant representation objects use a custom representation of the INFO fields, which cannot be pickled. This limits the
possible parallelisation of analysis downstream. Extracting out into dictionaries opens up opportunities downstream, and
these fields are used to set up the dictionary fields.

CSQ_STRING is used in 3 separate places:

1. Hail to construct the CSQ string
2. BCFTools to write into the header
3. in downstream analysis to digest the CSQ content

* csq_string - |-delimited series of values, describing the content in the CSQ field
* var_info_keep - values from the VCF variant INFO field which will be kept. This will be replaced with more generic
logic, so that the fields don't need to be enumerated in config, which feels brittle.

## `filter`

This section relates to the variant filtration and categorisation process, currently executed in Hail query. These
default settings are primarily based on a clinical-team provided specification, and can be replaced for a bespoke run.

* af_semi_rare - a minimum AF threshold to be applied to all variants
* min_samples_to_ac_filter - minimum number of samples in the joint-call in order to apply common-in-cohort filter

> * ac_threshold - where the joint-call filter is applied, remove all variants more common than this in the callset

Reviewer: "more common than this" is a bit unclear -- what does this threshold represent? Is it a fraction (in [0,1]) of samples that need to have at least one copy of the variant?

* ref_genome - ref_genome
* useless_csq - list of VEP consequences filtered out prior to classification steps
* critical_csq - list of VEP consequences treated as high priority/high impact
* in_silico - separate sub-group, thresholds to apply for each *in silico* tool. These parameters are taken from [work by *Pejaver et al.*](https://www.biorxiv.org/content/10.1101/2022.03.17.484479v1)

## `output`

> This section relates to the rubbish HTML document created as output. To be discontinued ASAP

Reviewer: 🤣

* seqr_lookup - location of a cache file containing the CPG_ID: SEQR_family_ID mapping

> * colours - Hex codes for text colours in the final HTML document

Reviewer: Do we want to use British spelling for variable names? 🇬🇧

Author: I do but I suspect I'm in the minority... though I'm actually not sure whether Australian spelling trends towards 🇺🇸  or 🏴󠁧󠁢󠁥󠁮󠁧󠁿

Author: crucially in code it will be American, so happy to change
